1. What is data engineering?
Data engineering is the practice of developing systems with the purpose of moving and transforming data from one place and shape to another following any given business needs.

2. What are the main responsabilities of a Data Engineer?
The main responsabilities of a data engineer are building and maintaining data pipelines to ensure that the data keeps flowing to satisfy business demands.  

3. Explain ETL.
ETL stands for Extract, Transform and Load.
It is a basic workflow for data engineers. This workflow or routine consists in extracting data from a source, transform it accordingly to predefined business rules and loading it into a landing zone where it will be queried by a final user.  

4. How you build a Data Pipeline?
To build a data pipeline you need to create a system than extracts data from a source and loads it into another.

5. In RDBMS, the Join command is your friend. Explain why.
One of the main benefits of Relational Databases is that it allows you to reduce data redundancy by normalizing the data. 
Data normalization is the process of organizing data so that it is structured efficiently. For example, instead of writing several times the same piece of information, you can extract once this information and load into another table and by keeping track of the relationship between the records, you can retrieve the complete information.
Since the data is spread in tables, to get all the information for a record one would have to join this mentioned tables. 
That's why in RDBMS the join command is your friend: data is spread in different tables to maximize efficiency and to get a full record you need the join command. 

6. What are the main features of a production pipeline?



7. How do you monitor a data pipeline? 
In my experience there are two ways of monitoring a data pipeline. 
The first one is having a dedicated team overlooking every time the pipeline runs.
The second one is having an alerting system integrated to the pipeline that sends messges to the relevant developers if something goes wrong.

8. Give us a situation where you decide to use a NoSQL database instead of a RDB and explain why.
One situation in which I would decide to use a NoSQL database instead of a RDB would be if I had to handle large volumes of unstructured data and if I haven't recieved clarity on how are we going to use this information. Instead of designing a RDB to store this information, I would simply load the information into a NoSQL database. 


9. What a re the non-technical soft skills that are most valuable for data engineers?
I think that the most valuable non-technical soft skill for a data engineer to have is business feeling. 
If the engineer has clarity on what's the business trying to achieve, he would anticipate business needs and reduce the communication bridge. 
Another valuable soft skill is open communication, willingless to admit his own ignorance, problem solving skills and a good time management.


10. Suppose you have to design an Anomaly Detection Solution for a client in real or near real time.
Which technologies do you apply for real time ingestion and stream for an anomaly detection system? Diagram the solution in AWS or GCP Infrastructure.


11. Explain the differences between OLAP and OLTP Systems.
Online Transactional Process systems are concerned in capturing in the most efficient manner data that is generated by the interaction between an user and the busisness platform (website, onpremise transactions).
While Online Analytical Platoform systems are concerned in modifying the business data for analysis.  
